The last data type I'm going to
talk about here is the data frame.
The data frame is a key data type used in
R and it's used to store tabular data.
So of course, tabular data make up
a lot of what we use in statistics.
Of course not all types
of data are tabular.
But because so
much data becomes a tabular form.
Data frames are very important in R.
So data frames are basically
represented as a special type of list,
where every element of that
list has the same length.
Right, so you can think of each column of
the data frame as an element of the list,
and of course, in order to be a table,
every column has to have the same length.
However, each column doesn't
have to be the same type.
So the first column could be numbers,
the second column could be factor,
the third column could be integers
the fourth column could be logicals,
it doesn't matter what
the different types are.
so, unlike matrices where, wh,
which have to store the same type of
object in every single element of
the matrix, data frame can store your
cla objects of different classes.
And so, data frames also have
some special attributes.
First, the first special
attribute is called a row name.
And so
every row of a data frame has a name.
And this can be useful for
kind of annotating the data.
So for example, each row re, might
represent a subject enrolled in a study,
and then the row names would
be the subject ID for example.
however, sometimes the row names
are not interesting, and, and, and
often you'll just use row names of 1,
2, 3, et cetera.
Data frames can be created by calling most
often calling the read.table, the read.csv
function and we'll get into that a little
bit when I talk about reading data into R.
And you can also create
a matrix from a data frame by
calling the data.matrix a function.
Now, you can't if you have a data frame
that has many different types of objects,
and then if you coerce that into a matrix,
it's going to force so
each object to be coerced so
that they're all the same.
So you may get something
that's not exactly expected.
So, data frames can be created
besides using read.table or
read.csv, you can use the data.frame
function and here I've
created a very simple data frame where
the first the first column is called,
is the foo variable, and
the second column is the bar variable.
The foo variable is an integer
sequence from one to four, and
the bar variable is a logical vector
with two trues and two falses.
So when I autoprint the data
frame out you'll see the,
it prints out the two columns and here
the row names since I didn't specify any
special row names, just defaults to 1,
2, 3, 4, because there's four rows.
And then when I call
the nrow function on x,
I see that there's four rows in the ncall
function, shows me that there are two rows